
A building permit must be obtained before you
construct, enlarge, alter, move, replace, repair, improve,
convert, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or structure. Building
permit is not required for certain work such as  one-story detached accessory
structure (Sheds, Playhouse, etc) not exceeding 120 square feet, fences not over 7
ft high, retaining walls not over 4 ft in height (measured from the bottom of the
footing to the top of the wall), etc. For complete list of work exempt from permit see
California Residential Code Section R105 and California Building Code Section 105.
All retaining walls, regardless of height, supporting a surcharge (for example road, structure
or hillside, etc) require a building permit.
Due to Covid, Email Permit Procedures and Applications have been suspended.
Some work may be eligible for Over the Counter permitting process. Please see our
Over the Counter page in order to see if your project qualifies for this process, as
well as to set an appointment if applicable.

A Planning Screening may be required prior to initiating the building permit
review.  If additional information is required or the project does not pass the
Planning Screening, you will be notified within 48 hours of submittal.

(1)  Complete a Development Services Intake Form. Fees will be calculated upon
submittal. Check and Planning fees are required at the time of
application, the other fees can be paid when the permit is issued.

(2) Submit plans, to scale, with a sheet size of 18" X 24" to 24" X 36" and any other
required documents digitally. Review the Digital Submittal Requirements and
Naming Conventions for file formatting requirements. Files are not to exceed
100 MB, and files can be separated by disciplines - examples architectural,
structural, civil, and landscape. Plans must include:
A description of the project scope of work.
Area (square feet) of existing structures, new construction, conversion,
remodel etc.

Santa Clara County REBUILD Determination and Points Allocation table.
Review Rebuild Ordinance for more information. If the project is
determined to be a Rebuild, the project will be classified as a new
residence and not a remodel. In that case, building site approval,
annexation to adjacent city or other requirements may result.
 
In the Site plan show the outline of the Assessor's Tax Parcel and the location and use of
all existing and proposed buildings. Plan details must include parcel
dimensions, public streets, easements, required setbacks, building
distance from all property lines, distance between buildings, off-street
parking, driveways, sewer lines or septic tank and leach field locations,
location of nearest fire hydrant, type of fire water system, percentage of
the lot covered by buildings, scale of the drawings, and a north arrow.
Also, specify the owner's name, the site address, the Assessor's Parcel
Number, the occupancy category, and type of construction. If the street
right-of-way to the parcel is not shown on the Assessor's Parcel Map,
then a copy of the deed describing the access to the property must be
included.

In the Floor Plan show complete dimensions, Include location of smoke detectors, all
appliances, heating system, electrical outlets, fixtures, attic and
underfloor access, door and window types and sizes (tempered or
thermal glass as required), other important structural elements, fire
protection in attached garages, and any other information necessary to
show that the building will meet all applicable codes. Also indicate the
gross floor area of all floors/levels and those to be heated.

In the Exterior Elevation submit elevations of all sides of the building. Show building height in
feet and indicate the difference in elevation between the highest point of
the structure (not including antennas, etc) and the highest and lowest
ground elevation at the exterior foundation of the structure.

In the Foundation Plan show dimensions and depths into bearing soil of all foundation
components. Indicate foundation anchoring details, reinforcements,
crawl-space clearances, concrete encased electrode ground, vents and
access. Any foundation system that deviates from the standard
foundation system described in the California Residential Code shall
bear the seal and signature of a registered civil or structural engineer or
licensed architect and have supporting calculations to substantiate the
design. Foundation design criteria shall be in accordance with data
provided in an accompanying soil report.

In the Architectural Cross Section show cross sections for as many areas as necessary to completely
describe the structure layout. Include details for connections, insulation
placement, ceiling heights, and/or other necessary or unusual details.

In the Framing Plans submit framing plans for floor, ceiling, wall and roof framing indicating
dimensions, materials, sizes, spacing, and connection details of all
structural framing members.

In the Roof Plan indicate roof layout, pitches, slope directions, roof covering, sheathing
and underlayment.

In the Construction Details detailed cross-sections of foundation components, walls, anchoring,
structural member connections, seismic connections, and other
pertinent construction details.

The Geotechnical Report (soil) report is required for new structures; or additions
larger than 1,200 square feet. A soil report may not be required for some
structures depending on the nature and extent of work. Review
Development Services Office Policy B-001 Geotechnical Report  for
further information on works that do not require Geotechnical report. A
geotechnical report shall be compiled by a registered geotechnical or
civil engineer and include, as a minimum, the following:
(a)  A plot showing the location of all test borings and/or excavations.
(b) Descriptions and classifications of materials encountered.
(c) Elevation of the water table, if encountered.
(d) Recommendations for foundation type and design criteria
including bearing capacity, provisions to minimize the effects of
expansive soils and effects of adjacent loads.
(e) Recommendation for retaining wall design including soil active
pressure, at-rest pressure, seismic earth pressure, passive pressure
capacity, wall drainage, stepped wall design criteria, and any other
applicable information.
(f) Expected total and differential settlement.

Manufacturers' Engineering Reports are required for ALL prefabricated structures and include
structural calculations and drawings.
Title 24, State Energy Calculations: A Certificate of Compliance (CF-1R) for residential and (ENV-1) for non-
residential, with all applicable signatures, shall appear on plans. Provide
heat loss calculations or specify the Alternative Component Package
used. Show all Mandatory Measures on the plan. For computer method
compliance, submit 2 copies of calculations.

CALGreen Checklist shall be included on plans.  The checklists can be
found at Green Building Requirements.
(a) Mandatory and Tier 1 measures:  All new single family residential
and duplex not smaller than 3000 square feet.
(b) Mandatory measures: Additions to existing single family.
CALGreen compliance forms and worksheets such as Construction waste
Management Plan can be found at CALGreen compliance forms and
worksheets. The applicable forms including CW-1 form shall be filled out
and shall appear on plans.

Erosion Control Plan For projects creating less than 500 square feet of new impervious
surface, please read, fill out, and sign the Erosion Control Checklist form.
For projects exceeding 500 square feet of new impervious surface,
provide a complete Erosion Control Plan showing Best Management
Practices (BMPs) that will be used to minimize erosion and prevent
sediment and hazardous material from leaving the site (sample plan).
Additional information and details of BMPs are on sheets BMP1 and BMP2.
Storm Water Quality Requirements: 
All projects are subject to State’s Regional Water Boards and the
County’s Clean Water Program for storm water quality requirements.
(3) Design Professional (Engineers and Architects) must sign and stamp plans and
calculations.
(4) Electrical, plumbing and mechanical permits may also be required, when
applicable. Additional plans to be included with the building plans may be
required for these permits.
(5) Forms for Development Impact Fee Compliance will be provided for: 
Local school district(s) clearance(s) on additions or conversions of non-
habitable area which exceed 500 square feet
Fire District clearance, if located within South Santa Clara County Fire
District jurisdiction for new structures or additions which exceed 500
square feet.
(6) Habitat Plan (if applicable): If located in Habitat Plan Area, submit the Habitat
Plan Screening form or full Habitat Plan Application.
(7) Water and/or Sanitary Sewage Clearance (clearances are required prior to
permit issuance)

Public Water – For new construction, obtain “Will Serve Letter” from
local water provider.

Public Sanitary Sewer – If the subject property is connected to a public
sanitary sewer, provide a permit or clearance letter from the sanitary
sewer company indicating clearance of the proposed scope of work.
Onsite Well – The Department of Environmental Health (DEH) requires a
clearance letter if the subject property is either developing or has an
existing onsite well. Please contact DEH for clearance requirements. 
Once the Water Clearance Letter is obtained, submit a Water Clearance
Letter with your building permit application.
Onsite Wastewater Treatment System (OWTS)/Septic System – The
Department of Environmental Health (DEH) requires a clearance if the
subject property requires a new or has an existing OWTS. Please contact
DEH for clearance requirements. Once OWTS clearance is obtained,
submit 3 original stamped and signed copies of OWTS plans or clearance
with your building permit application.
(8)  If your project exceeds 2,000 square feet of net new impervious area (roof top,
driveway, patios, and concrete walkways) a drainage permit is required.
(9) A grading permit is required if the quantities of earth excavation outside the
footprint of the proposed building exceeds 150 cubic yards of cut or fill or 5’
vertical cut.
(10) Landscape permits are required for all new landscape areas of 500 sf or more.
See our Sustainable Landscape page for requirements. Landscape plans must
identify proposed plants, water usage requirements, hydrozones, irrigation
details, and water budget calculations. If the new proposed landscape area
exceeds 2500sf, the plans must be designed, stamped, and signed by a
licensed landscape architect.  (Digital copy of landscape plan is preferred.) 
(11) The Roads and Airports Department  (RAD) requires an Encroachment Permit
when the proposed scope of work involves improvements in the right-of-way
near a county-maintained road (utility trenching, new driveway, etc). The
Encroachment Permit must be obtained prior to the issuance of the Building
Permit. Please contact RAD for Encroachment Permit submittal requirements.
If there are no improvements in the right-of-way, please note this in the
project description. 

Fees  are calculated based on the size, type and valuation of construction. Plan
check and PO review fees are required at the time of plan submission. Building
permit inspection, SMIP, encroachment, geologic review and septic system fees are
paid at the time the permit is se4, Zoning Ordinance, Health Code, etc. Normal processing takes
four to six weeks. Any remaining fees, including the building permit fee, are payable
prior to issuance of the building permit, as well as school fees, if applicable. If
needed, plumbing, electrical and mechanical permits can be issued with the
building permit.

What if I need an extension on my Building Permit or my Plan Check?
If you require an extension to your Building Permit or Plan check, deliver a filled out
a Plan Check Extension Form or a Building Permit Extension Form to Reception at
the front counter of our office.

